(upbeat music)
Welcome back, in this video
we are going to build a pricing grid
and I think this is a really good example
because it's got a couple things.
First of all, we're using flexbox to create these
columns here, and then we also have the opportunity
to either center them, like they are now,
or show you how to use equal column height
but still make sure that this button,
this call to action button, is at the bottom.
That's a request I get from clients quite a bit,
and previously had been a bit of a pain.
So, what I want to do is get started.
Open up your index and your style.css
and I'm just gonna refresh.
So what we've done here is I've set you up with some HTML.
Let's go over the HTML real quick.
I've got this pricing grid,
and this is going to be our flex container,
and I've got each div, here, is a plan,
Div with a class of plan, div with a class of plan,
and inside of it I've just got a whole bunch of content
that you'd normally find, things like headings, paragraphs,
unordered lists, and buttons.
So, that's that. Let's jump on over to our style.css,
and, again, this is just base styling.
We wanna scroll right down to the bottom and actually start
with our flexbox stuff.
My pricing grid, I've made it 750 and I've centered it,
I'm just gonna put a border on that, just to show you
where it is. You get the point, right?
Here's a 750 pixel wide div.
Now, we want to turn off flexbox. So how do we do that?
Display flex, that will make it our flex container.
Let's see what we got here. Alright, cool.
Right away, we have enough content that, what it's doing
is it's distributing the items, and because this dog one
here is the most content, it's giving it the most space.
However, it's not exactly what we want,
we want them to be equal width, so we need to go ahead
and select each item, and if we look here, pricing grid
is our flex container, each .plan
is going to be our flex item. So, .plan, and we will say
flex 1 and that will just individually split it up
Okay, that's good. Just gonna give some styling
to this one right here, say, background
rgba, 255, 255, 255, 0.2, cool.
I'm gonna go ahead and put some margin on this,
maybe 20px, and in a previous video, I said
you have to sorta pay attention to your margin,
'cause you're still doing the box model,
but just like regular HTML, or regular CSS, sorry,
when you apply a margin to an item that doesn't have
an explicit width on it, it's just gonna eat
into everything we have there. So let me give
some padding to it, border radius of 4px,
text align center, okay, so that should,
alright, that's looking pretty good.
Now, we actually need to go ahead and,
we did our flex 1, I'm gonna move this to the bottom here.
Now, this might be the layout that you want.
I get this request fairly often from clients,
where you'd like to have three columns here,
and they should all be exactly the same size,
determined by whatever is the highest.
And then, usually, what also comes along with that,
is, oh, can you just put the buttons all at the bottom?
Because I know that the text is sometimes shorter or longer,
but I would like the call to action buttons
to always be all along the bottom. So, how do we do that?
By default, these ones right here, the align items,
are stretch, and I'm gonna show you in just a second
where we're gonna change it to, align items into center,
and we'll see what that does, it takes them,
and that's kinda what we're looking for
at the end of the day.
However, if we don't want that, the default is stretch.
And when we have that on, it stretches them as high
as the tallest one is, which is pretty great.
However, how do we get these buttons
to then go to the bottom?
I know that we have the ability to overwrite
a single item in, say, align self flex end,
so how do we do that?
Let's go ahead and select our, let's say, .plan.
What do we got on that? Cta, is a class.
So, .cta, and, let's say, align self, flex end,
And that should stick it right to the bottom.
So I'll give it a refresh, and that doesn't do anything,
and that's because align self flex end,
that is a flexbox property that is applied to a flex item.
Now, what is our flex item in this case?
Well, flex item is the plan and the flex container
is a pricing grid, so anything inside of this flex item
is really nothing for us.
So, we actually need to go one step further
and also make this plan display flex as well,
so remember in the last video we talked
about nesting flexbox, this is another situation
where you would do that.
So, say display flex, and, oh my goodness, what happened?
Well, since we displayed flex it's gonna try
and make it into rows, so what we need to go ahead
here and do is say flex wrap wrap, so they'll wrap
onto the additional lines, and that fixes some of it,
but still we've got all kinds of issues here
where maybe this, like see this paragraph right here?
It can technically fit right beside the h3 of fish,
so really not what we want just yet,
so we need to go ahead and select all of the new
flex items, so if this plan now is a flex container
as well, this h2, this paragraph, this unordered list,
this paragraph, and this link, those are all flex items.
So we need to select them, so now .plan, angle bracket,
star, that means all direct descendants of the plan,
which it selects all of your flex items, and you can say
flex 1, see what that gives us, it's broken again.
You can see why this flexbox stuff is so frustrating,
every time you try to add something
it just gets worse and worse.
But again, it's 'cause there's no width on them.
So, we can say flex-basis, 100 percent,
and everything is fixed for us, we can actually do
a little bit of a shorthand there, one 100 percent,
that'll set the grow, shrink, and the basis
all in one go, and we're off to the races there.
So, great, we're in really good shape there,
however, if we don't want it to be 100 percent,
100 percent, 100 percent, which is kind of cool,
what we can do is go back up to our pricing grid,
and get, use our align items property,
and we can set that to center.
So, it's not gonna stretch them across,
it's gonna figure out, how high is this pricing grid?
Let's put a border on that so we can see where it is.
So, see this red border? I'll bump that up a little bit.
And that's how big it is, and it's gonna center them
right inside of that flex container.
So, again, another really nice example as to
when you would use flexbox as a component in
a website, as well as using a nested flex, where
the plan is both a flex item and a flex container.
See you in the next video.
(upbeat music)